README.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src="https://habrastorage.org/webt/-0/x1/z4/-0x1z48ndvvopw_baizloa6r1hs.png"></p>

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/furdarius/rabbitroutine.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/furdarius/rabbitroutine)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine)

# Rabbitmq Failover Routine

Small, user-friendly library for RabbitMQ with auto-reconnect and publish retry routine.
The library is designed to save the developer from the headache when working with RabbitMQ.

**rabbitroutine** solves your RabbitMQ reconnection problems:
* Handles connection errors and channels errors separately.
* Takes into account the need to [re-declare](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Consumer) entities in RabbitMQ after reconnection.
* Notifies of [errors](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Connector.AddAMQPNotifiedListener) and connection [retry attempts](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Connector.AddRetriedListener).
* Supports [FireAndForgetPublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#FireForgetPublisher) and [EnsurePublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#EnsurePublisher), that can be wrapped with [RetryPublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#RetryPublisher).
* Supports pool of channels used for publishing.
* Provides channels [pool size](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Pool.Size) statistics.

**Stop to do wrappers, do features!**

## Install
```
go get github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine
```

### Adding as dependency by "go dep"
```
$ dep ensure -add github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine
```

## Usage


### Consuming
You need to implement [Consumer](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Consumer) and register
it with [StartConsumer](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Connector.StartConsumer)
or with [StartMultipleConsumers](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Connector.StartMultipleConsumers).
When connection is established (*at first time or after reconnect*) `Declare` method is called. It can be used to
declare required RabbitMQ entities ([consumer example](https://github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine/blob/master/consumer_example_test.go)). 


Usage example:

```go

// Consumer declares your own RabbitMQ consumer implementing rabbitroutine.Consumer interface.
type Consumer struct {}
func (c *Consumer) Declare(ctx context.Context, ch *amqp.Channel) error {}
func (c *Consumer) Consume(ctx context.Context, ch *amqp.Channel) error {}

url := "amqp://guest:guest@127.0.0.1:5672/"

conn := rabbitroutine.NewConnector(rabbitroutine.Config{
    // How long to wait between reconnect
    Wait: 2 * time.Second,
})

ctx := context.Background()

go func() {
    err := conn.Dial(ctx, url)
    if err != nil {
    	log.Println(err)
    }
}()

consumer := &Consumer{}
go func() {
    err := conn.StartConsumer(ctx, consumer)
    if err != nil {
        log.Println(err)
    }
}()
```

[Full example demonstrates messages consuming](https://github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine/blob/master/consumer_example_test.go)


### Publishing

For publishing [FireForgetPublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#FireForgetPublisher)
and [EnsurePublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#EnsurePublisher) implemented.
Both of them can be wrapped with [RetryPublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#RetryPublisher)
to repeat publishing on errors and mitigate short-term network problems.

Usage example:
```go
ctx := context.Background()

url := "amqp://guest:guest@127.0.0.1:5672/"

conn := rabbitroutine.NewConnector(rabbitroutine.Config{
    // How long wait between reconnect
    Wait: 2 * time.Second,
})

pool := rabbitroutine.NewPool(conn)
ensurePub := rabbitroutine.NewEnsurePublisher(pool)
pub := rabbitroutine.NewRetryPublisher(
    ensurePub,
    rabbitroutine.PublishMaxAttemptsSetup(16),
    rabbitroutine.PublishDelaySetup(rabbitroutine.LinearDelay(10*time.Millisecond)),
)

go conn.Dial(ctx, url)

err := pub.Publish(ctx, "myexch", "myqueue", amqp.Publishing{Body: []byte("message")})
if err != nil {
    log.Println("publish error:", err)
}

```

[Full example demonstrates messages publishing](https://github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine/blob/master/publisher_example_test.go)

## Contributing

Pull requests are very much welcomed.  Create your pull request on a non-master
branch, make sure a test or example is included that covers your change and
your commits represent coherent changes that include a reason for the change.

To run the integration tests, make sure you have RabbitMQ running on any host,
export the environment variable `AMQP_URL=amqp://host/` and run `go test -tags
integration`. As example:
```
AMQP_URL=amqp://guest:guest@127.0.0.1:5672/ go test -v -race -cpu=1,2 -tags integration -timeout 5s
```

Use `gometalinter` to check code with linters:
```
gometalinter -t --vendor ./...
```

TravisCI will also run the integration tests and gometalinter.

Commit message:

Move to go modules. Start using golangci-lint.
Signed-off-by: Artemiy Ryabinkov <getlag@ya.ru>

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src="https://habrastorage.org/webt/-0/x1/z4/-0x1z48ndvvopw_baizloa6r1hs.png"></p>

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/furdarius/rabbitroutine.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/furdarius/rabbitroutine)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine)

# Rabbitmq Failover Routine

Small, user-friendly library for RabbitMQ with auto-reconnect and publish retry routine.
The library is designed to save the developer from the headache when working with RabbitMQ.

**rabbitroutine** solves your RabbitMQ reconnection problems:
* Handles connection errors and channels errors separately.
* Takes into account the need to [re-declare](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Consumer) entities in RabbitMQ after reconnection.
* Notifies of [errors](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Connector.AddAMQPNotifiedListener) and connection [retry attempts](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Connector.AddRetriedListener).
* Supports [FireAndForgetPublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#FireForgetPublisher) and [EnsurePublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#EnsurePublisher), that can be wrapped with [RetryPublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#RetryPublisher).
* Supports pool of channels used for publishing.
* Provides channels [pool size](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Pool.Size) statistics.

**Stop to do wrappers, do features!**

## Install
```
go get github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine
```

### Adding as dependency by "go dep"
```
$ dep ensure -add github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine
```

## Usage


### Consuming
You need to implement [Consumer](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Consumer) and register
it with [StartConsumer](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Connector.StartConsumer)
or with [StartMultipleConsumers](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#Connector.StartMultipleConsumers).
When connection is established (*at first time or after reconnect*) `Declare` method is called. It can be used to
declare required RabbitMQ entities ([consumer example](https://github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine/blob/master/consumer_example_test.go)). 


Usage example:

```go

// Consumer declares your own RabbitMQ consumer implementing rabbitroutine.Consumer interface.
type Consumer struct {}
func (c *Consumer) Declare(ctx context.Context, ch *amqp.Channel) error {}
func (c *Consumer) Consume(ctx context.Context, ch *amqp.Channel) error {}

url := "amqp://guest:guest@127.0.0.1:5672/"

conn := rabbitroutine.NewConnector(rabbitroutine.Config{
    // How long to wait between reconnect
    Wait: 2 * time.Second,
})

ctx := context.Background()

go func() {
    err := conn.Dial(ctx, url)
    if err != nil {
    	log.Println(err)
    }
}()

consumer := &Consumer{}
go func() {
    err := conn.StartConsumer(ctx, consumer)
    if err != nil {
        log.Println(err)
    }
}()
```

[Full example demonstrates messages consuming](https://github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine/blob/master/consumer_example_test.go)


### Publishing

For publishing [FireForgetPublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#FireForgetPublisher)
and [EnsurePublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#EnsurePublisher) implemented.
Both of them can be wrapped with [RetryPublisher](https://godoc.org/github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine#RetryPublisher)
to repeat publishing on errors and mitigate short-term network problems.

Usage example:
```go
ctx := context.Background()

url := "amqp://guest:guest@127.0.0.1:5672/"

conn := rabbitroutine.NewConnector(rabbitroutine.Config{
    // How long wait between reconnect
    Wait: 2 * time.Second,
})

pool := rabbitroutine.NewPool(conn)
ensurePub := rabbitroutine.NewEnsurePublisher(pool)
pub := rabbitroutine.NewRetryPublisher(
    ensurePub,
    rabbitroutine.PublishMaxAttemptsSetup(16),
    rabbitroutine.PublishDelaySetup(rabbitroutine.LinearDelay(10*time.Millisecond)),
)

go conn.Dial(ctx, url)

err := pub.Publish(ctx, "myexch", "myqueue", amqp.Publishing{Body: []byte("message")})
if err != nil {
    log.Println("publish error:", err)
}

```

[Full example demonstrates messages publishing](https://github.com/furdarius/rabbitroutine/blob/master/publisher_example_test.go)

## Contributing

Pull requests are very much welcomed.  Create your pull request, make sure a test or example is included that covers your change and
your commits represent coherent changes that include a reason for the change.

To run the integration tests, make sure you have RabbitMQ running on any host (e.g with `docker run --net=host -it --rm rabbitmq`), then
export the environment variable `AMQP_URL=amqp://host/` and run `go test -tags
integration`. As example:
```
AMQP_URL=amqp://guest:guest@127.0.0.1:5672/ go test -v -race -cpu=1,2 -tags integration -timeout 5s
```

Use [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint) to check code with linters:
```
golangci-lint run ./...
```

TravisCI will also run the integration tests and golangci-lint.
